# Minor-Project-2-Final
An ML based project, dealing with skin cancer detection.

Abstract:
Among skin diseases the type that causes cancer are the most fatal ones and pose the biggest issues. These issues arise due to the fact that cancers are just much larger quantities of the same cells that are present around the body, which makes diagnosis very difficult until later stages. For skin diseases this is an even bigger issue as most diseases look the same and are generally harmless. Now the onset of artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques, in the field of images, has allowed computers to identify sequences and patterns in images that can never be observed by the naked eye. Hence in order to battle skin cancer in its early stages a system has been proposed to identify and predict skin cancer in its earlier stages. A skin cancer prediction system has hence been created and implemented to predict three major types of skin cancer that affect humans. A dataset of the said skin cancer types and other types of skin diseases have been taken and analysed for this project. Apart from the model a web application has also been constructed for deployment on the web to enable the access of this model to the general masses. This would involve the usage of a camera or a picture file as input and the output would be the type of cancer or just no cancer. This project’s main aim is to provide a fast and accurate diagnosis of skin cancer for anyone using the web application. It is essentially free of cost and can provide a great help to people in remote areas using this, who have limited access to proper healthcare.
